# CaseStudy2DDS
**Author: Mingyang Nick YU**
#### Purpose: DDSAnalytics that specializes in talent management solutions for Fortune 100 companies. This is a process of developing and retaining employees. It may include workforce planning, employee training programs, identifying high-potential employees and reducing/preventing voluntary employee turnover (attrition). To gain a competitive edge over its competition, DDSAnalytics is planning to leverage data science for talent management. The executive leadership has identified predicting employee turnover as its first application of data science for talent management. Before the business gree lights the project, they have tasked me to conduct an analysis of existing employee data.
# Structure: 
#### Datasets(CaseStudy2-data.csv) -- if were to run result need to adjust read.csv location accordingly
#### Dataset(CaseStudy2CompSet No Attrition.csv) -- provide additional dataset with all variables except Attrition. Build model to predict such value, and exported the predictions to (Case2PredictionsYu Attrition.csv)
#### Dataset(CaseStudy2CompSet No Salary.csv) -- provide additional dataset with all variables except MonthlyIncome, built model to predict MonthlyIncome, and predictions are exported to (Case2PredictionsYu Salary.csv)
#### CaseStudy2DDS_YU.RMD: This is a markdown file including detail description, analysis and r code to accomplish my analysis
#### CaseStudy2DDS_YU.html: This is a knit file generated from RMD file above, a nicer overall report including the graphics from RMD file
#### PPTX: This is my presentation deck, to summarize findings to present to CEO and CFO of Frito Lay
#### In order to successfully run the RMD file, you need to download corresponding libraries that are used in the RMD file
#### This project can be found under github link: https://github.com/nickmingyang/CaseStudy2DDS
#### YouTube Presentation by Nick YU: 

### Conclusion:

#### By exploring importance of variables using automated software, we have found OverTime, MonthlyIncome, TotalWorkingYears, to have the highest relations with Attrition, visually however, we see more relations with Job Involvement Levels, Job Roles, Overtime. We were able to build a prediction model using Naive Bayes, by using variables that have stronger relations to predict Attrition, with an average Accuracy rate around 81%.

#### By using internal 10-fold cross-validation accompanied with Stepwise automated selection, I found the optimal multi-linear regression model to predict MonthlyIncome. The model has generated 0.9532 adjusted r-squared value, which tells me the correlation between MonthlyIncome and the predictors generated by stepwise selection are very good.

#### I further analyzed several factors of Job Roles that Frito Lay is interested in exploring and found Healthcare Representation has the highest average Job Satisfaction Score, while HumanResources has the highest Work Life Balance Score.

#### No gender discrimination has been found based on Monthly Income and Percentage Salary Hike according to my statistical analysis with the data that is provided.